Apache Spark command cheat sheet


Spark Shell commands
Command	Description
spark-shell	Starts the Spark Shell in Scala. This is an interactive environment for running Spark commands.
pyspark	Starts the Spark Shell in Python. Useful for writing Spark applications using Python.
sc.version	Displays the version of Spark running in the shell.
sc.appName	Returns the name of the current application.
sc.master	Shows the master URL to which the Spark application is connected.
sc.stop()	Stops the SparkContext, effectively ending the Spark application.
:quit	Exits the Spark Shell.
 

RDD transformations
Transformation	Description
map(func)	Returns a new RDD by applying a function to each element of the source RDD.
filter(func)	Returns a new RDD containing only the elements that satisfy a given condition.
flatMap(func)	Similar to map, but each input item can be mapped to multiple output items (e.g., by splitting sentences into words).
distinct()	Returns a new RDD containing distinct elements of the source RDD.
union(otherRDD)	Merges the content of two RDDs and returns a new RDD.
intersection(otherRDD)	Returns an RDD that contains only the common elements between two RDDs.
groupByKey()	Groups the data by key and returns a new RDD of (key, iterable) pairs.
join(otherRDD)	Joins two RDDs by their keys and returns an RDD of (key, (value1, value2)) pairs.
 

Actions
Action	Description
collect()	Returns all the elements of the RDD as an array to the driver program.
count()	Counts the number of elements in the RDD and returns the result to the driver.
take(n)	Returns the first n elements of the RDD.
reduce(func)	Aggregates the elements of the RDD using a specified binary function.
saveAsTextFile(path)	Saves the contents of the RDD to a text file at the specified path.
countByKey()	Counts the number of elements for each key in a pair RDD and returns the count to the driver.
foreach(func)	Applies a function to each element of the RDD. This is often used for side effects such as updating an accumulator variable or interacting with external storage.
